Title: A More Rustic New Year
Date: 2013-01-01 18:52
Author: travelneil
Category: Christmas Trip
Tags: Alcohol, Finland, Foreign, Images, International, New Year, Photos, Travel
Slug: a-more-rustic-new-year

So it's 2013 and it looks like we're still here. The Mayans were wrong,
so let's celebrate! And that's exactly what I did last night. Allow me
to take you on a directed tour of a suburban Finnish New Year's
celebration. And note that I only say suburban because the neighborhood
is only about ten minutes from the town center. Don't mistake "suburban"
for "densely populated". Anywhere in the U.S., this would easily qualify
as a rural neighborhood.

Preparing for New Year's here involves buying three things: fireworks
and alcohol and lots of food. On the morning of New Year's Eve, I went
with Kaisa's family into the town of Varkaus, and we picked up all
three. By far the most interesting was the fireworks: the fireworks
stand we chose to buy from was inside a Toyota dealership, and manned by
a pair of enthusiastic young men. When I asked *why* it was in a Toyota
dealership, it was explained to me that the fireworks booths are always
located somewhere with sufficient open space and incentive to host them.
This year, one such location happened to be the Toyota dealership.
Fireworks available ranged from €1.50 Thunder Kings to a €99.50 Army
Box.  We left the dealership with two bags stuffed full of miscellaneous
fireworks.

After the fireworks, it was time to stock up on drinks. Any drink
greater than 44 proof (22% alcohol by volume) can only be sold by the
publicly-owned Alko shops. There, Kaisa's father picked up a variety of
things, and Kaisa and I bought a bottle of Salmiakki vodka, Minttu
peppermint vodka, and some Conways Country Irish Cream. The Salmiakki is
by far the most interesting of the bunch. Salmiakki is a Finnish candy
that tastes like salty black licorice. As an alcoholic beverage it's
certainly...strange, but I liked it.

Then was a trip to the grocery store, and then home. A few hours later,
we went to visit Raimo and Marjo, Kaisa's parents' neighbors, for the
night. As soon as we arrived, it was decided that we would set off some
preliminary fireworks, eat some food, then move on to the main event. As
I arrived at the firing ground, Kaisa's father Reima brandished what
looked like a large coffee can at me and explained that I after I lit
the fuse, I would have 5 seconds to run 50 meters (150 feet) to safety.
He also explained that Jamaican gold medalist Usain Bolt can only run
100 meters in 9 seconds--in short, what he'd asked of me was impossible.
I grinned and said that I knew and asked if we were ready. He nodded, so
I flipped down my safety glasses, knelt down, lit the fuse and ran. My
hat flew off, but true to my agreement with Reima, I kept running. I'd
made it maybe 15 meters before the fireworks began exploding. I judged
that I was far enough and turned to watch.

[![fireworks2]({filename}images/fireworks2_thumbnail.jpg)]({filename}images/fireworks2.jpg)

######  And I found this!

After a bit more of this, we returned indoors to eat. Upon entering, I
sat down at the table to a sort of after-dinner meal, and was informed
that Raimo had prepared the glass in front of me. I eyed it skeptically
before shrugging and taking a swig. I looked up to find the entire table
staring expectantly. I grinned and exclaimed "Ah! Salmiakki! On hyvää!"
("It's good!") to the apparent delight of everybody at the table. Over
the course of dinner, Raimo held his glass up to me with a cheerful
"Kippis!" ("Cheers!") no less than four times. After dinner was
complete, we returned outdoors to continue our explosive revelry.

Despite speaking scarcely a word of Finnish, I made fast friends of
Raimo's 7-year-old grandson after I allowed him to teach me how to light
the fireworks.

[![fireworks1]({filename}images/fireworks1_thumbnail.jpg)]({filename}images/fireworks1.jpg)

######  I greatly enjoyed my lessons in pyromania.

And I wasn't the only one setting off dangerous explosives.

[![fireworks4]({filename}images/fireworks4_thumbnail.jpg)]({filename}images/fireworks4.jpg)

######  Kaisa got involved too!

After exhausting our store of fireworks, we retreated inside Raimo's
*kota* (a little hut with a fire pit in the center and seating around
the outside) and began trying to see our futures in melted tin
(something I [alluded
to](http://travelneil.wordpress.com/2012/01/01/and-a-happy-new-year/) in
a post last year). We had forgotten to pick any up tin horseshoes at the
store earlier in the day, but Raimo's grandson was there to save us. He
had a little bag of tin horseshoes, and we wasted no time melting those
over the *kota*'s fire.

[![kota1]({filename}images/kota1_thumbnail.jpg)]({filename}images/kota1.jpg)

######  Raimo's grandson pulling his flash-solidified tin from the bucket of  water.

The tin is melted over a fire, and then once liquefied, it's poured into
a bucket of water. After being given a moment to cool, it's pulled
out...

[![My tin.
DE
CLAWWWW]({filename}images/kota3_thumbnail.jpg)]({filename}images/kota3.jpg)

######  My tin. DE CLAWWWW

...and the shapes are interpreted according to some guidelines I'm not
entirely clear on.

[![Conclusion: Adorableness is in my
future.]({filename}images/kota4_thumbnail.jpg)]({filename}images/kota4.jpg)

######  Conclusion: Adorableness is in my future!

Happy 2013, everybody!
