Title: Amsterdam, Helsinki and More
Date: 2011-12-18 09:17
Author: travelneil
Category: Christmas Trip
Tags: Finland, Foreign, Images, International, Photos, Snow, Travel
Slug: amsterdam-helsinki-and-more

*Amsterdam*

So, my first thoughts upon (finally) getting off the plane and seeing
the Amsterdam airport: *Wow, this is a nice airport.*

My thoughts five minutes later? *This isn't an airport! It's a mall with
airplanes and security screening on the side!*

American airports, get it together. Not only is Schiphol way more
visually attractive than any US international airport I've ever been in,
it's also much, much better designed. I will grant that many
international US airports are old, and I'm fairly sure Schiphol is
relatively new. But still, we're slacking. C'mon now, the Netherlands
have (or would that be The Netherlands has?) it together! Even their
security checkpoints are better laid out, and we're supposed to be
security freaks! They have 5 elevated booths with glass to the side and
above, with narrow choke points between each booth that allow passengers
to continue. Way easier to defend than our silly checkpoints. Sheesh.

Not much to say about the flight itself. It was like any other long
flight, only longer. The fact that we traveled at an average (ground)
speed of about 600 mph was pretty cool, but that's fairly standard for
an airplane. Still, the idea of hurtling through the air in a
pressurized metal cigar at speeds nearing that of sound is a pretty cool
one.

One last thought: despite it's relative grandeur and glamor, I don't
think I would've wanted to fly internationally in the jet set days. They
didn't have TVs will multiple full-length movies, music albums and TV
episodes mounted in the back of every chair. For example: I was able to
watch a few episodes of How I Met Your Mother, How to Train Your Dragon,
and about half an hour of Source Code before I got frustrated with how
stupid the protagonist was and gave up.

*Helsinki*

I didn't get a great look at Helsinki from above, because by the time
the plane began its descent, it was totally dark, and there was fog and
clouds everywhere. It was also snaining (That's snow + rain for those
who are unaware. It's a miserable combination because it's like rain
that sticks to you). I did not envy the pilots. They brought us down
just fine though, and about 30 minutes later, I was off the plane and
had my bag. Didn't even have to go through customs, which was a nice
surprise.

I had a chance to meet Kaisa's brother Rauno and her sister Tiina. We
ended up spending about an hour at Tiina's apartment because she was
celebrating her graduation from school. (Some sort of fancy vocational
school. Not really clear on the details) When I walked in, I greeted her
with a Hauska tavata!" ("Nice to meet you!") and she gave me the most
shocked, blank look for a good three seconds. I glanced at Kaisa and
asked "Did I say that wrong?" and Tiina quickly told me "No, no! I was
just surprised!" So, if she's any indication, all you have to do to make
a good first impression on a Finn is know a little bit of their
language!

After a long series of uninteresting decisions, Kaisa, her friend Emilia
and I hopped on a train. For Kaisa and I, to get to the hotel, and for
Emilia to meet the rest of the gang at a restaurant. The original plan
was that we would join them, but as I was sitting on the train, I
realized that I was pretty much out of gas. The original plan wasn't
going to fly, so we instead opted to go the hotel and call it a night.
Exhausted though I was, the chance to walk through Helsinki at 6PM was
actually pretty cool. A *lot* of cool old architecture and a lot of foot
traffic.

That's all for now. Won't have much chance to update this thing for the
next few days, because I'll be on an overnight cruise to Stockholm and
back! I imagine that if there's any Wi-Fi available, it'll cost two arms
and half a leg.

P.S. More pictures to come soon. Didn't get a chance to take any last
night.
