content/snowy-shots.md, before:

Title: Snowy Shots
Date: 2012-12-26 18:25
Author: travelneil
Category: Christmas Trip
Tags: Finland, Foreign, Images, International, Photos, Snow, Travel
Slug: snowy-shots

[![marttiini\_819017\_deluxe\_spike\_more]({photo}marttiini_819017_deluxe_spike_more.jpg)]({filename}images/marttiini_819017_deluxe_spike_more.jpg)

######  The piikki

I don't really have any interesting Christmas-related observations this
year. Though I *did* just watch Kaisa's neighbor fillet some fish that
he'd caught this morning. Apparently, properly filleted fish costs about
20 euros per kilo at the store, and what he'd caught came out to 6 bags
with 410 grams each--just under 10 euros worth of fish per bag. It's
been salted, and one bag is currently sitting in the fridge waiting to
be prepared somehow. He also did it with a handmade knife, and an
interesting looking tool called a piikki (fish spike, or literally
"thorn") which apparently doubles as something you can jab into the ice
and pull yourself out with, should you fall in.

Anyway, with that little interlude out of the way, feel free to enjoy
some pretty pictures I took this morning, a little after 11AM. Pictures
are behind the "Continue reading..." link.

[![100\_0640]({photo}100_0640.jpg)]({filename}images/)

######  Kaisa's parents' front yard.

[![100\_0644]({photo}100_0644.jpg)]({filename}images/)

######  To the side of the house, this is what the master bedroom  overlooks.

[![100\_0648]({photo}100_0648.jpg)]({filename}images/)

######  The same as above, but from the road and at a different angle.

[![100\_0649]({photo}100_0649.jpg)]({filename}images/)

######  A small panorama of the road and the little field.

[![100\_0652]({photo}100_0652.jpg)]({filename}images/)

######  In the opposite direction down the road.

Commit message:

Fix some missing images, add some alt text

content/snowy-shots.md, after:

Title: Snowy Shots
Date: 2012-12-26 18:25
Author: travelneil
Category: Christmas Trip
Tags: Finland, Foreign, Images, International, Photos, Snow, Travel
Slug: snowy-shots

[![marttiini\_819017\_deluxe\_spike\_more]({photo}marttiini_819017_deluxe_spike_more.jpg)]({filename}images/marttiini_819017_deluxe_spike_more.jpg)

######  The piikki

I don't really have any interesting Christmas-related observations this
year. Though I *did* just watch Kaisa's neighbor fillet some fish that
he'd caught this morning. Apparently, properly filleted fish costs about
20 euros per kilo at the store, and what he'd caught came out to 6 bags
with 410 grams each--just under 10 euros worth of fish per bag. It's
been salted, and one bag is currently sitting in the fridge waiting to
be prepared somehow. He also did it with a handmade knife, and an
interesting looking tool called a piikki (fish spike, or literally
"thorn") which apparently doubles as something you can jab into the ice
and pull yourself out with, should you fall in.

Anyway, with that little interlude out of the way, feel free to enjoy
some pretty pictures I took this morning, a little after 11AM. Pictures
are behind the "Continue reading..." link.

~2021 EDIT~: Looks like these images didn't survive the migration from WordPress. Sorry =/
