Title: The Rural Metropolis
Date: 2013-01-27 10:18
Author: travelneil
Category: Christmas Trip
Tags: City, Finland, Foreign, Images, International, Photos, Snow, Travel
Slug: the-rural-metropolis

After a harrowing 24-hour transcontinental journey and a week to
recover, I'm back stateside and in Camarillo. I'm drinking a can of root
beer, and marveling at the fact that, for some reason, such a delicious
beverage has avoided making its way overseas (or at least into Finland).

Today, I'm going to introduce you to life in the Finnish city.
Specifically, life in Jyväskylä. Mostly because I have a ton of unused
pictures from the city, and I was finally able to get some good daytime
shots, and I want to use them.

Ranking as the 7th-largest municipality in Finland by population,
Jyväskylä is a modestly large city with over 130,000 residents. I spent
most of my time within a few blocks of the city center which is home to
a series of pedestrian-only streets and a number of shops. Walking (or
biking) from the apartment to the city center was a lesson in cultural

[![Parking:
a valuable
commodity.]({filename}images/100_0712_thumbnail.jpg)]({filename}images/100_0712.jpg)

######  Parking: a valuable commodity.

differences. The streets, while straight, were difficult to navigate by
car but lent themselves very naturally to somebody on foot or on a bike.
Walking down any street within 5 blocks of the city center, you're
surrounded by 4-5 story tall buildings, all of which have their first
story given over entirely to businesses and shops. It's a marked
difference from here in the U.S., where cars are a given and nobody
walks anywhere. In the span a little over half a mile, I'd walk past
small electronics stores, realtors offices, specialty food shops, little
restaurants, pubs, bike stores, and all kinds of other little things I
didn't take the time to recognize. And that's just the obvious,
well-indicated stuff. There are all kinds of other little things hidden
away behind a door, or on the second story that are harder to see. Dusty
classrooms where music is taught, Chinese buffets that couldn't land a
coveted first-story lease, tiny game development studios. I think that I
could walk three square blocks of that city every day for a year and
still not discover everything.

The other curious thing is the *people* everywhere. Think of the average
street in an American town around, say lunchtime, or rush hour when
people are going home. Now, imagine that every car is carrying anywhere
from 1 to 5 people. Now, take all those people out of their cars, and
put them on sidewalks, on foot or on bicycles. What you've got now is
the average Jyväskylä sidewalk. It's a strangely reassuring phenomenon.
Even though I'm in a foreign country, seeing people walking about doing
normal, everyday things is very comforting. It's like this all
throughout the day, from early morning to late at night. People go to
work in the morning, or come home from a night on the town with friends
at night.

[![Pictured:
dense
metropolis.]({filename}images/100_0722_thumbnail.jpg)]({filename}images/100_0722.jpg)

######  Pictured: dense metropolis.

But that's not to say that there are people everywhere. Nor are there
buildings everywhere. If one day, the Finns decided to pack up, leave
their cities and stop cultivating the natural environment, it's
estimated that nature would reclaim the cities in as little as fifty
years. The church pictured to the left was right across the street from
the apartment I stayed in, which was only a few blocks away from the
city center. The Finns have to actively fight nature to carve out new
city blocks, and the city itself was surrounded by no less than three
lakes. Possibly more!

In closing, here are a few shots I don't really have enough material to
build an entire post around, but are still tangentially related to the
topic at hand: city life.[gallery ids="374,376,378,383,382"]
