content/this-websites-architecture-personal-soapbox.md, before:

Title: This Website's Architecture; or, My Personal Soapbox
Date: 2021-01-16 12:02PM
Category: Programming
Tags: programming, slim-website, soapboxing, personal-philosophy
Slug: this-websites-architecture-personal-soapbox
Authors: Neil McAlister
Summary: The philosophy behind my little page in this corner of the web.

## What am I on about?

This website began life as a free, hosted WordPress blog. I wanted some place to share my travel experiences for family members to follow along, and WordPress was free and easy. Some time later, I thought it would be fun to (finally) learn how to go about getting a website hosted, so I moved the content off of WordPress, and into a [static site generator](https://blog.getpelican.com/) because that was the easiest (and cheapest) thing to host.

Then, I spent five years working in the software industry.

There, I learned that modern web dev is a [hopelessly-complicated](https://hackernoon.com/how-it-feels-to-learn-javascript-in-2016-d3a717dd577f), labyrinthine, kafkaesque nightmare that encourages reams and reams of Javascript, which require generators, preprocessors, bundlers, frameworks, and transpilers, all in an effort to wrench the web into a half-functional application framework.

If this were just in service of waking web applications, I might even be okay with that; taken individually, all these descisions make a fair amount of sense in context. But a lot of the time, websites whose primary purpose is to display text and the occasional image or two, are forced to lug around a megabyte and a half of web framework and Javascript.

This frustrates me. And I'm [not the only one](http://bettermotherfuckingwebsite.com/).

Moreover, I'm also made uneasy by the way that tech giants have collected all of us into about four or five walled-garden megaplatforms: Reddit, Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, YouTube, etc. The age of the personal homepage is dead and buried, and Facebook has even begun eating small business sites too. After all, why hire someone to make you a webpage when Facebook provides all the tools for free? All they demand is your users' data, and that's not a price that _you're_ paying.

So: this website. My own personal homepage, where I can say whatever nonsense I like, style pages in whatever way I please, and even–horror of horrors–embed auto-playing MIDIs. 

...though modern browsers are probably smart enough to mute that nonsense right away. Thank heavens.

Instead of just wallowing in nostalgia for a bygone era, I've tried to draw inspiration from it, and take advantage of all that we've learned in the intervening twenty years or so. So let's talk architecture.

## Architecture

The basic philosophy is driven by two goals: simplicity, and size. I want the site to be both uncomplicated, and have as small a footprint as possible. So, static HTML is the way to go. No backend, because hosting server software is about ten times more complicated than just hosting static files. I also wanted to author content in Markdown instead of raw HTML, so that means I'll want a site generator. There are [more static site generators](https://jamstack.org/generators/) than you can shake a stick at out there. I landed on [Pelican](https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/#) mostly because it supported Markdown and could import from WordPress. It also has a pretty simple (though, typical of Python projects, poorly-documented) plugin system, so customizing it is pretty easy.

Pelican provides a number of community-maintained themes, and the theme I'm using is a version of [cebong](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican-themes/tree/master/cebong) I've modified to support article cover images, and teaser text for featured articles. There's a lot of stuff in the template/theme I don't need that I'm slowly winnowing down in an effort to bring file size down--my CSS files are about 16kB, and I bet I can get that smaller. It also imports about 30kB of webfonts which I _could_ trim out, but I like how they look, so I'm willing to put up with it.

So I write my blog posts and pages in Markdown, and run them through Pelican, which transforms everything into HTML, handles resolving relative links, generates thumbnails, that kind of thing.

In addition, I have a single TypeScript file that, once compiled to Javascript, takes up about 12kB that powers the comments. I intend for _that_ whole mess to be the subject of a future blog post, because putting it together was an interesting experiment in stitching things together.

The end result is that this article is about 57kB of CSS/JS, plus about 10kB of HTML for a total file size of 70kB. That's about 3 or 4 seconds on a 56k dial-up connection. Not bad. Images, of course, will immediately blow that number up by orders of magnitude, but 

An image looks like this: 
[![Alt-text]({photo}imagename.jpg)]({static}images/imagename.jpg "Mouseover text here")

An internal link looks like this:
[Text to show]({static}/absolute/path/relative/to-root.md)
or, a relative path:
[Text to show]({static}../relative/to-current-file.md)

Code looks like this:

    :::shortlangname
    using Code;    
    
    namespace code
    {    
        public static class Program
        {                    
            static void Main()
            {
                code code code
            }
        }
    }

Commit message:

Two new articles, fixes to photos plugin, SO MANY CSS TWEAKS  - New soapbox article  - Snow 2021 pictures article  - CSS tweaks to make loading faster  - Added table prefixes to the comments backend, for local dev  - Fixed Photos plugin EXIF stuff not working quite right

content/this-websites-architecture-personal-soapbox.md, after:

Title: This Website's Architecture; or, My Personal Soapbox
Date: 2021-01-16 12:02PM
Category: Programming
Tags: programming, slim-website, soapboxing, personal-philosophy
Slug: this-websites-architecture-personal-soapbox
Authors: Neil McAlister
Summary: The philosophy behind my little page in this corner of the web.

## What am I on about?

This website began life as a free, hosted WordPress blog. I wanted some place to share my travel experiences for family members to follow along, and WordPress was free and easy. Some time later, I thought it would be fun to (finally) learn how to go about getting a website hosted, so I moved the content off of WordPress, and into a [static site generator](https://blog.getpelican.com/) because that was the easiest (and cheapest) thing to host.

Then, I spent five years working in the software industry.

There, I learned that modern web dev is a [hopelessly-complicated](https://hackernoon.com/how-it-feels-to-learn-javascript-in-2016-d3a717dd577f), labyrinthine, kafkaesque nightmare that encourages reams and reams of Javascript, which require generators, preprocessors, bundlers, frameworks, and transpilers, all in an effort to wrench the web into a half-functional application framework.

If this were just in service of making web applications, I might even be okay with that; taken individually, all these descisions make a fair amount of sense in context. But a lot of the time, websites whose primary purpose is to display text and the occasional image or two, are forced to lug around a megabyte and a half of web framework.

This frustrates me. And I'm [not the only one](http://bettermotherfuckingwebsite.com/).

Moreover, I'm also made uneasy by the way that tech giants have collected all of us into about four or five walled-garden megaplatforms: Reddit, Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, YouTube, etc. The age of the personal homepage is dead and buried, and Facebook has even begun eating small business sites too. After all, why hire someone to make you a webpage when Facebook provides all the tools for free? All they demand is your users' data, and that's not a price that _you're_ paying.

So: this website. My own personal homepage, where I can say whatever nonsense I like, style pages in whatever way I please, and even–horror of horrors–embed auto-playing MIDIs. 

...though modern browsers are probably smart enough to mute that nonsense right away. Thank heavens.

Instead of just wallowing in nostalgia for a bygone era, I've tried to draw inspiration from it, and take advantage of all that we've learned in the intervening twenty years or so. So let's talk architecture.

## Architecture

The basic philosophy is driven by two goals: simplicity, and size. I want the site to be both uncomplicated, and have as small a footprint as possible. So, static HTML is the way to go. No backend, because hosting server software is about ten times more complicated than just hosting static files. I also wanted to author content in Markdown instead of raw HTML, so that means I'll want a site generator. There are [more static site generators](https://jamstack.org/generators/) than you can shake a stick at out there. I landed on [Pelican](https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/#) mostly because it supported Markdown and could import from WordPress. It also has a pretty simple (though, typical of Python projects, poorly-documented) plugin system, so customizing it is pretty easy.

Pelican provides a number of community-maintained themes, and the theme I'm using is a version of [cebong](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican-themes/tree/master/cebong) I've modified to support article cover images, and teaser text for featured articles. There's a lot of stuff in the template/theme I don't need that I'm slowly winnowing down in an effort to bring file size down--my CSS files are about 16kB, and I bet I can get that smaller. It also imports about 30kB of webfonts which I _could_ trim out, but I like how they look, so I'm willing to put up with it.

So I write my blog posts and pages in Markdown, and run them through Pelican, which transforms everything into HTML, handles resolving relative links, generates thumbnails, that kind of thing.

In addition, I have a single TypeScript file that, once compiled to Javascript, takes up about 12kB that powers the comments. I intend for _that_ whole mess to be the subject of a future blog post, because putting it together was an interesting experiment in stitching things together.

The end result is that this article is about 57kB of CSS and Javascript, plus about 10kB of HTML for a total file size of approximately 70kB. That's about 10 seconds on a 56k dial-up connection. Not bad when most connections, even poor 2G ones, tend to be faster than that, these days. Images, of course, will immediately blow that number up by orders of magnitude, but I can address that with some clever use of thumbnails, and [the `loading="lazy"` attribute](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Performance/Lazy_loading#images_and_iframes).

There are a few other tricks, too–the single Javascript file is marked with `defer`, which defers loading until the rest of the document is parsed. As a result, downloading the Javascript file won't slow down initial page rendering. I could also move a handful of CSS declarations into the body of the document itself, so that things look mostly-normal until the main CSS file (which would be moved to the end of the page) loads, instead of making the user wait for all the styles at once. I could minify the CSS and Javascript files to shave off another 6kB or so. All of this is sort of moot for the huge majority of people who might read my blog, but optimizing a site to the point where it's acceptable for even dial-up users gives me warm fuzzies, all right?

## Putting it all together

All of this has to live up on the internet _somewhere_, but I decided early on that I didn't want a real backend. I'm just serving static files, and pretty much every webhost knows how to handle an `index.html`. Why write code? In the end, I settled on an [Azure static site](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blob-static-website) because it also makes setting up SSL certificates for HTTPS dead easy, and I get a CDN practically for free. All of that costs me an average of about 3 whole cents a month (plus about $13 a year for a domain name from Namecheap).

Now with everything hosted and online, I've got my own little corner of the internet that I'm free to do whatever I like with, and style however I wish. No ads, no frameworks, no creepy user tracking, a `:visited` psuedo-class that's actually useful, and all the pages are less than a megabyte (images notwithstanding). No backend* to worry about, and I'm not tied to any provider or host, because everything is just static files.

I won't end this with any particular call to action, because I know that putting all this together isn't for everyone. But if you've got any interest in having a _homepage_ instead of just a wall or a profile page, I'd encourage you to try it. Creating a little personal anachronism free of the walled gardens elsewhere on the internet is a nice feeling.

Feel free to leave a comment below, or find me on Twitter as [@pingzingy](https://twitter.com/pingzingy).

<hr>

<small>*Actually, there is a _tiny_ backend that powers comments. More on that in another post.</small>

[![Creative Commons BY badge]({filename}images/cc-by.png)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ "This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.")
_The text of this blog post is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License._
