Title: Tripping Over My Words
Date: 2012-01-30 10:19
Author: travelneil
Category: Christmas Trip
Tags: Finland, Foreign, Images, International, Photos, Snow, Travel
Slug: tripping-over-my-words

You thought I was done, didn't you? Think again!

So, I've been back for two weeks now. I'd say that's long enough to have
re-acclimated to being in the US again. So with that in mind, today's
post is going to be a language lesson. Obviously, when visiting a
foreign country, unless we're talking about the U.K., Canada or
Australia, chances are good that English is *not* going to be the native
tongue, and you will have to deal with another language. And when you're
exposed to a language for a long period of time--say, a month--then you
start noticing certain characteristics about it.

Let me be frank: speaking Finnish is like pronouncing a series of
landmines. Your tongue is jumping all over from place to place, and the
oral gymnastics that are required to keep up are, quite frankly,
astounding. As a simple barometer of average word complexity, let's take
a look at average word length. In English, the average word is 5 letters
long. 5.10, if we're being specific. Finnish? It's harder to find solid
numbers, but 8 seems to be about on-target. Think about that for a
moment. "Catch" is a five-letter word. "Stricter" is eight letters long.
Imagine an entire sentence made of up Stricters, rather than Catches. 
Now, keep that in mind! That is an important piece of information! Got
it firmly nested into your noggin? Good. Now! Recall, if you will, that
averages don't account for outliers. Just because the average English
word is five letters long doesn't mean that we can't have ridiculousness
like "antidisestablishmentarianism". Since Finnish's average word length
has an extra three letters going for it...that means they have THAT MANY
MORE ridiculous words skewing the average toward a higher number.

Still don't quite grasp it? Okay, let's look at some examples. I have,
in front of me, a copy of From Finland with Love by Roman Schatz. It is
written in both Finnish and English and is a lovely bit of writing, a
fact which is entirely beside the point. In the opening sentence of the
Finnish version of the book, is the word "Lukukokemuksesi". It's
pronounced exactly as it looks. Seven syllables. It means "your reading
experience" in English. Luku- is a root word (or something close to it.
My knowledge isn't exactly top-notch here) that just means "chapter" by
itself. When combined with other words, it means "something to do with
reading". Kokemuksesi means "your experience".

Impromptu language lesson aside, I want everybody reading this to take a
moment to pronounce that word. Lukukokemuksesi. It helps if you break it
up. Luku. Koke. Muk. Sesi. Now say it all quickly as if it were, you
know, actually all one word. Tricky, huh? No? Okay, try this on for
size.

"Juonnettavakseni." This one's a little trickier. Remember that the
Scandinavian J works like an English Y. So in Finnish, "jo" is actually
pronounced "yo".

Juo. Netta. Vak. Seni. You can do it.

I'll wait.

Got it? No you don't. Know why? You have to pronounce the double-t and
the double-n. It's like a tiny pause on the sounds, with an emphasis
afterward. JuonNEHtTAHvakseni. Double-letters in Finnish work very
differently from English. Instead of modifying the sound to something
completely different, they just lengthen it. Which...really makes more
sense, don't you think?

Okay, okay, I've bored you all to death with 500 words of rambling about
how funny the language sounds, and how hard it is to pronounce. What's
my point? Simple! Being completely surrounded by a language that sounds
so different from your own is a profoundly strange experience.
Everything from the written language to the ambient buzz of conversation
around you changes completely.  And it changes your brain a little bit,
ever so slightly. I'll see a familiar words or phrase, and I'll
accidentally pronounce it with a Finnish accent.

It was especially noticeable within the first few hours of returning. I
had gotten off the plane from Amsterdam about an hour ago, and was
eating in a California Pizza Kitchen somewhere near L.A. with Jake (Hi
Jake!) when my head started to swim a little. It was about lunchtime,
and as a result, the place was pretty crowded. But instead of just
tuning out the dull roar of conversation around me, my brain kept homing
in on bits and pieces of it. Because there were words it actually
*understood!* It wasn't just meaningless static anymore, they were
sounds with *meaning!* It was about the time I asked for the check, and
marveled at our server's lack of accent that I realized I was suffering
from a mild dose of culture shock. In my own country. Wild.

And next time I grab some spicy molcajete with my chips, I have to
remember that it's molca-HEH-tay. Not molca-YEH-tay. Damn j's.

P.S. Next post is going to be a big fat picture dump, and a final
wrap-up. Be excited.
